---
title: Week 12 Essay 
date: 2023-06-19
---

This week in the Encora Apprentice Program, I gained valuable knowledge through the Java Backend Developer track on Hyperskill.  Building upon last week's insights into sophisticated software design, I delved into how the Java Virtual Machine handles polymorphism - an indispensable tool for crafting flexible, reusable, and maintainable code. Before my experience at the Encora Academy, my attempts to helm Java projects with sophisticated designs that featured polymorphism often led to a labyrinth of classes and methods that behaved unpredictably. However, with a better understanding of how Java handles these object-oriented concepts, I am confident that I won't encounter the same issues in the future.

One aspect of advancing through the Java Backend Developer track that I particularly enjoy is the opportunity to explore the foundations of web development with Java. I joined the Apprentice Program precisely to gain a deeper understanding of the theory behind the code I've been writing blindly for financial gain. While I have studied some aspects of cybersecurity through my CISCO certifications and have worked with JSON Web Tokens for authentication in web development, web security in modern applications remains an area where I feel deficient. The challenges surrounding user credentials and security often leave me feeling like I'm wandering aimlessly in a desert, grappling with specific issues and a lack of comprehensive documentation. Nevertheless, the Hyperskill lessons have provided me with a broader insight into how to handle authentication and authorization with Java, as well as implementing and working with Open Authentication (OAuth) APIs.

Furthermore, I found it fascinating to explore the HttpClient built into Java 11. In larger projects, I've primarily used Spring or Apache libraries for interacting with external resources via HTTP. While these libraries served me well, I find myself inclined towards built-in methods. They often lead to code that is more library-independent, scalable, and sustainable in the long term.

As I continue to expand my knowledge of computer science fundamentals, I dived into the data analysis life cycle for my second Lightning Talk. Although my aspirations lie in Artificial Intelligence, the allure of cloud development in my role as a software engineer is hard to resist. However, I recognize the high demand for data science specialists in the technology market. Therefore, I believe that delving into data science is a profitable avenue for paving my career as an AI specialist. To select a topic for my Lightning Talk, I explored various popular professions in data science. I understood the distinctions between data engineers, data analysts, data scientists, and discovered the role of machine learning engineers. This prompted me to grasp each stage of the data analysis process to some extent. Reflecting on my past AI courses, I realized that my efforts in data cleaning had been mediocre, mainly due to the tedium of the task. However, I have now chosen to focus on this step to rectify the gaps in my knowledg, even if it is typically the most labor-intensive part of data analysis.

Overall, this week's journey has been both enlightening and rewarding. The lessons on Hyperskill have equipped me with essential skills and perspectives, enabling me to grow as a Java developer. Looking ahead, I am excited to continue expanding my knowledge in the field of data science and leveraging it to shape my path as an AI specialist.
