---
title: Week 7 Essay 
date: 2023-05-12
---

The most valuable insight I gained this week revolved around the transformative power of practicing headspace meditations. For the very first time, I experienced tangible results from engaging in mindful meditation, allowing me to witness firsthand the immense level of concentration I could harness within my own mind. Previously, I had been so drained and exhausted that such changes seemed imperceptible, but after being able to relax a bit in my free time this week, I was able to truly grasp the transformative impact of these practices. It was truly remarkable the heightened level of concentration and self-control, and my new ability to induce sleep at will. 

In addition to this newfound self-control, I made another intriguing discovery about myself—I tend to feel disoriented and adrift when faced with unstructured free time. As someone with numerous aspirations and goals, wasting time can be incredibly frustrating. Over the course of my time at Encora, I have introduced myself on several occasions, often sharing my name and hobbies. This prompted me to deeply contemplate how I spend my free time. Previously, I had never given much thought to organizing my time as a hobby, but considering the substantial amount of time and effort I invest in this practice, I now perceive it as one of my primary pastimes. I have learned that organizing and structuring my free time alleviates this sense of aimlessness and grants me a profound sense of accomplishment and inner peace. 

Shifting gears to more academic pursuits, I have recently delved into the captivating realm of quantum physics, embarking on an enthralling journey through the pages of a quantum physics book. This week, I immersed myself in absorbing chapters on the enigmatic concepts of quantum spin, matrix mechanics, and Schrödinger's equation. Among the abundance of captivating information in this book, several key insights stood out to me. Firstly, I grasped that quantum spin refers to the inherent angular momentum of a particle, which does not correspond to literal spinning motion. Secondly, the development of matrix mechanics was based on the somewhat rash idea that matrix algebra could explain the intricate relationship between an atom's position and its momentum, as the result of operating matrices changes depending on the order of the operation. Lastly, I finally comprehended the significance of Schrödinger's cat experiment. It served as a critical examination of Neils Bohr's ideas on the wave-particle duality and the collapse of the wave function, paving the way for the prominence of Schrödinger's equation in the realm of quantum physics. On a personal note, I must admit that I never particularly liked Schrödinger as a person, there was always something unsettling about his infamous cat experiment. Now, discovering the unsavory aspects of his personal life, including his extramarital affairs with “young lovers”, has only solidified my negative perception of him. This revelation serves as a stark reminder that intuition often speaks volumes and should not be dismissed.

For my professional growth, this week I had the opportunity to learn how to initialize a ReactJS using node and Java Spring Boot project using maven. This experience was particularly interesting for me because, although I had previously worked with projects utilizing these technologies, I had never delved into the process of project initialization. I must admit that configuring my environment to ensure the smooth execution of these new projects proved to be the most challenging aspect. As someone who tends to focus on the bigger picture rather than intricate details, I find myself easily frustrated by the numerous configurations required in a local environment. Throughout my journey as a software engineer, I had grown accustomed to performing these setups effortlessly on Windows. However, encountering these configurations on MacOS once again brought about a sense of annoyance.


Overall, this week has been a journey of self-discovery, intellectual exploration, and technical advancement. I have witnessed the transformative effects of practicing headspace meditations, while recognizing the value of organizing my free time, finding solace and accomplishment in structured moments. My exploration of quantum physics has deepened, enriching my understanding of the intricate nature of quantum phenomena. Finally, I embarked on the initiation of a web project, broadening my knowledge and expertise. I am eager to continue expanding my horizons and embracing new opportunities for growth in the weeks to come.